talks in Qatar about renewing the
ceasefire between Israel and Hamas have
collapsed Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has ordered his team
to return home Hamas which has been
designated a terrorist organization by
multiple countries has told the media it
will not release any more hostages until
all Palestinian prisoners held by Israel
are released Israel is stepping up air
strikes on Southern Gaza which is where
it told civilians to flee to during the
first phase of the
war Relentless strikes on Southern Gaza
where many people had sought
safety hope for some here is now
gone there's nothing left to fear our
houses are gone our property is gone our
money is gone sons have been martyred
some died and some left disabled in the
hospital what's left to cry for and then
they tell us we'll get Aid where is
it this two-month War has seen entire
Palestinian families wiped out many
people have been displaced multiple
times like those in this makeshift camp
near a hospital in the city of hunis
they say no place is safe with Israeli
bombs dropping everywhere so some are
ignoring Israel's calls to move further
south and are staying put
in the first shelling they told us to
evacuate to the South because it's
safe now they tell us to go further
south this is nonsense we're not going
anywhere we'll remain here and they can
do whatever they
please Israel says it has struck
hundreds of Hamas targets including what
it says were a command center and
military compound but it denies claims
there are no safe places to evacuate to
in
Gaza we determin safe areas in Gaza and
coordination with International agencies
and with our American
friends we determine safe areas to where
the population knows it can
evacuate we did it in the North and we
will do it elsewhere
and this is important because we have no
desire to harm the
population there is no sign of another
pause in fighting Israel has pulled its
negotiator out of the ceasefire talks
the deputy leader of Hamas said any
further release of hostages would only
happen as part of ending the
war always good to welcome military
Affairs analyst Frank ledd who joins us
now he's a senior lecturer in strategic
studies at Portsmouth University and a
former UK Military Intelligence officer
Frank uh ceasefire talks have stalled
Israel is warning people to get out of
parts of Southern Gaza fair to assume
the next ground offensive is
imminent yes good morning Michael
certainly and ground operations have
been continuing not least of course to
uh deal with the continue to deal with
the vital tunnel systems in the north of
Gaza the uh divisions and brigades are
engaged I think pretty much every day
and even during the ceasefire there were
breaches with combat as for the uh PA in
the negotiations we we look at any
negotiations be they legal or commercial
and of course military like this kidnap
kidnapping uh uh negotiations included
you're always going to get pauses people
walking out threatening what's
interesting here is we see now the all
for all deal that Hamas has been pushing
for for quite a while and I think it's
not at all appealing shall we say to the
uh to the
Israelis we in the media keep referring
to the masses of people there and it
Bears repeating we're talking about as
many as 1.5 million Palestinians who
might have to move many of them already
displaced how is that even possible let
alone keeping them relatively safe well
I suspect it isn't possible there are a
number of constraints first of all it
seems that the instructions that Israel
are G giving and you can see these
across the media where you are told well
go from this Zone to that zone uh or uh
move move to this Village are evidently
confusing and there's a second issue as
well which is rarely spoken of and
that's of course the fact that Hamas
doesn't want people to move because a
Hamas is using these people as human
Shields so from the Israeli perspective
they are causing evidently causing
cusing some confusion perhaps they're
trying to do certainly they're trying to
do their best I would imagine but also
uh Hamas has an interest in keeping
people there and of course how long is
this going to go on for shifting people
around like pieces on a chessboard it uh
it doesn't it's not a good look should
we say Frank Israel's made their
objective clear their aim is to
eradicate Hamas full stop do you think
as a military strategist that Israel's
military strategy is not going to change
regardless of how densely populated its
targeted areas might be or how much
International support it might
lose well Michael Israel doesn't have a
military strategy yet and they're
they're being reminded this fairly
constantly by us Pol politicians senior
us politicians not least of course uh Mr
blinkin himself I no doubt at all that
President Biden is on the phone to
Netanyahu quite regularly and uh vice
president Harris yesterday made it very
clear to these ra you will not be
conducting you will not we will not
permit population transfers ethnic
cleansing quite rightly so so there
there is no strategy now president
macron today said something very
interesting I think he's right about he
said look militarily speaking if your
aim is to kill Hamas physically that's
going to take 10 years this was similar
to the aim of course well the aim
outlined in
1982 when uh Israel invaded Lebanon to
destroy the Palestinians in in a way and
that started a 20-year conflict
president macron's raising an issue I
think that's very important here Israel
needs not only itself to understand but
most importantly needs its allies
friends and indeed adversaries to
understand what is not the end game here
but what track are you trying to get on
what is your political objective
realistic political objective here how
do you want this to look at the end of
the military operation they can reduce
Hamas to a rump no doubt about that of
course it seems that they're they're
electing to do so uh using or rather
with um extensive civilian casualties uh
but what after that and finally of
course constantly worth worth mentioning
you can't kill an idea and that idea
tends to grow when many many people are
killed who shouldn't be killed that is a
military analyst Frank leadwich as
always many thanks Frank thank you
Michael